Hello, everybody. Welcome to the stream. And welcome to Python Bytes. We'll just jump in.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news and headlines directly
to your earbuds. This is episode 263, recorded December 15th, 2021. And I'm Brian Okkens.
I'm Michael Kennedy.
And I'm Lais Carvalho.
- Awesome, Lais.
Before we jump in, could you tell us who you are?
- Absolutely.
So first of all, thank you so much for having me.
Thank you for the invite.
And so my name is Lais Carvalho,
and I'm a developer advocate for Quantsite.
And I also do a little bit of voluntary work
for Python Ireland and a few other Python things
around the sphere.
- Nice. - Cool.
That sounds really fun.
The company you work for, I'm not familiar with it.
What do you guys do there?
It sounds a little bit like maybe Quant Finance,
maybe some ML stuff.
- Yeah, so we do everything.
So QuantSite is a consultancy company,
but we do, so basically our CEO is one of the
main guys behind NumPy.
And yeah, basically we do consultancy
and everything you need.
- Yeah, sounds fun.
- Cool.
- Well, Michael, let's go-- - Brian, you know
what else is fun?
- What is fun? - Websites.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, and if you think about websites,
what web framework in Python is used more than Django?
- Flask, maybe? - Maybe Flask.
I think they're right on the boundary,
but certainly Django is at the top.
And I hear so many stories from people
who say they got into Python
not because they love Python,
because they wanted to do Django.
I even had a guest recently describe themselves as a Django developer who learned Python because
they just wanted -- they came for the Django and they stayed for Python, which is cool.
Django has been on a bit of a tear lately in terms of its speed.
I actually went back and looked.
If you look at a release for Django 1, that was in May 2010.
2010 I think it came out before then but that's as far as the release history goes back in dates
But so 1.0 was in 2010
Seven years later 2.0 came out in 2017. It seems like that just happened times flying. Yeah, and then
in
2020 three years after two was three and then now we have Django 4.0
So it's going seven years three years one years, you know, who knows so do we get like five in March?
>> Exactly. Maybe, maybe, but it's cool. Django 4 is out. It's not a super huge release in
terms of what's covered, but some of the highlights over there include, I think I mentioned this
that it was coming, but now it is here, the new Redis cache back in. So there have been
previously ways to plug in or use Redis as a cache back in inside of Django, but now
Now it's just you just use Django's caching implementation and you tell it, "By the way,
here's the connection string to Redis," and that happens.
That's pretty cool, right?
>> Yes.
Yeah.
>> Another thing that Django does for you is it will render forms and stuff based on
various things like models and whatnot.
They've changed how that works to ease customizations of forms and form sets and error lists.
They are now rendered using the template engine, so you have more control over how forms and
and stuff look, and some changes to do with the time zone as well.
It's now using Python's time zone, so I guess it used a different one before.
I never really paid that much attention to which time zone it used.
So with the release of 4, 3.2 has now reached the end of mainstream support, which is interesting.
And Liza, what you're going to talk about later, actually this is relevant as well,
right?
>> Yes.
Everything you're covering talks about Django and versions and upgrades and so on.
So that's it.
Django 3.2 is a long-term support release, so it will receive security fixes until April
24, but there's no more features coming to 3.2.
All the new features and improvements and whatnot are going into 4.0.
So that's pretty cool.
And let's see.
If you go over to the release notes, it now supports only Python 3.8 to 3.10, which I
I think it's pretty cool.
- That's interesting.
- Yeah, that's no messing around, right?
They're like, nope, we spent too long supporting 2.7.
We're not doing that anymore, right?
- Yeah.
- Yeah, I think most frameworks
are not supporting 2 anymore.
- Yeah, it's really good.
- There's a lot still supporting 3.7 though,
so it's interesting that 3.7 is out as well.
- True.
- Yeah, well, they've got the 3.2 on
It still supports that if you want to be on the slow burn.
Let's see what else.
There's a few things.
I'm not going to go through it.
One more highlight maybe is you can create composite indexes really easily with the unique
constraint.
You can have a uniqueness constraint that has the first name and the last name.
You could have the same first name or the same last name as somebody in the database,
but not the same first and last name.
That's pretty interesting.
They upgraded the password hasher to script.
I have no idea what the script password hasher is, but it's more secure than the PBKDF2 hashing
algorithm.
You never want those to be too easy because if you can brute force guess them, that's
bad news.
However, if you want to be using this better password hasher, you have to enable it because
it requires OpenSSL 1.1 or higher on the system.
They don't assume that you have that.
You've got to basically do some work to make that happen.
Then there's a bunch of things about what was added, what was deprecated.
Again, leading ahead, there's some backwards incompatible changes, things that are breaking
changes.
There's also deprecation of some features that were not previously deprecated.
You want to be on top of that as well.
Django 4.
- Yeah, we're gonna get Django 5 in March or something,
I'm guessing, right, Brian?
- Yeah.
- And can we take a moment to just say thank you
for the amazing documentation that Django has all over?
It's so good.
I'm a newbie, and every time I open,
I don't really use Django that much,
but every time I open their documentation,
sometimes I actually use their documentation
to just check stuff about the web development
because it's just so, so good.
So thank you very much maintainers of Django documentation
'cause it's really, really good.
- Indeed, indeed.
Sam Morley on the audience says,
"I'm always impressed by how much Django managed
"to cram into each release."
Indeed.
And Mark Pender says, "Howdy all from Ireland."
- Hello.
- Right on.
Cool, cool.
All right.
Brian, what do you got?
- I got Python Minifier.
Actually, so this was a suggestion from Lance Rinesmith.
So thanks Lance for sending it up.
But he also sent some reasons.
My first reaction was,
we don't need a minifier for Python.
What's up?
This isn't Java or something.
So, but he gave a couple of reasons.
The docs for minifier have this sort of convoluted reason.
Apparently AWS cloud formation.
I don't know any of the details of this,
but AWS CloudFormation templates
can have AWS Lambda functions source code embedded in them,
but only if they're 4K or less.
So a small amount of code.
So that's one of the reasons why I wrote this package.
Lance, the person who sent it in,
said his reason for using it is Adafruit boards,
which is a cool idea.
I didn't think about that with like,
you know, Adafruit boards or in circuit Python,
you've got less space to work with.
So minifying your code might be a good idea.
That's pretty cool.
Decent idea.
So what does this do?
It's this, like, there's an example on the page
of just normal Python code.
It's maybe not the best Python code, but normal-ish.
And then it replaces it with like, you know,
or replaces the very old names with A, B, C,
things like that.
Some of your typical renaming things.
So it has like a whole bunch of different techniques
that it uses.
I'm gonna go to the docs,
has a combines imports.
So instead of on multiple lines,
you just combine them all together, saves a little space,
removes passes, which is interesting.
It removes them to just assigns it to zero.
in a function, that's interesting.
I didn't know you could do that.
Hoist literals, that's an interesting thing.
And that's just, if you've got a literal
that's a bunch of different places,
it just defines a variable and defines it at the top.
Kind of interesting.
- It uses a lot of semicolons, that's wild.
- Yeah.
Remove annotations, so type annotations,
you probably don't need at runtime for something like this,
so you can remove them.
local renaming, a whole bunch of stuff to,
and, you know, renaming globals and literals.
And sometimes you, like if it's an API
or if something else is using it,
you don't want to rename the globals
'cause those are the API.
So you can turn any or all of this stuff off.
I guess you wouldn't turn all of it off
'cause why would you use it?
But you can turn off stuff that doesn't work.
So I would suggest if you're using Minify,
test your code of course and remove what you need and I actually for something
like a circuit Python and stuff like this might be an interesting idea
I'm curious let me put out another idea about where it may be useful
can you go back to the example?
So just that code sample you had? Yeah. So if you look at it
one of the things you often have to do and I'm not suggesting this is really a
a good idea, but it could be applied this way.
One of the things you have to do if you want to ship your Python
code around to be used with places
is to share your source code, right?
And sure, you could send a PYC file,
but it's basically the same thing, right?
So what about if you go in here and run this against something
that you want just a little bit more obfuscation?
You don't want people poking around it.
That definitely looks less easy to read to me.
- Yeah.
- I mean, it could go farther, right?
It could rename like create certain and whatnot,
but maybe those are like standard library things.
But certainly if you're trying to obfuscate your code
as well, there could be some sort of use case there.
Although it's not super obfuscated, so.
- Yeah, it seems like that was a Java thing.
I don't even know if they do that anymore, obfuscators.
- Yeah, I don't know.
I haven't been in that world for a long time either.
- It might help also if you're playing golf,
you know, coding golf, you know, just write one of these.
- Yeah, indeed.
Mark says-- - What is coding golf?
- Sounds like a thing that black should have,
maybe a flag, yeah.
- That's a terrible idea.
- Yeah, I don't know what coding golf is either, Brian.
- Really?
Okay, so you have like a coding--
- I just go to the driving range,
I don't actually do any more things with golf,
so I'm not very advanced.
- Coding golf is like the lowest scores the best, right?
in golf. So it's a coding challenges that you solve with
the minimal characters.
So minimal lines of code, minimal characters.
And it's a, yeah, that's what coding golf is.
- So you just throw the Zen of Python out of the window.
- Exactly. It's not easy to read code, but.
- Okay.
(laughing)
- Got it.
- All right. Sounds fair.
- May the best man win, and the best person win.
- Sorry. - Indeed.
- Yeah, also one of the things it does
is that it doesn't advertise,
is it throws away all your spaces
and replaces them with tabs.
- Oh, interesting.
Yeah, it does look very tab-filled in the--
- Well, it makes sense.
You know, four spaces versus one tab.
It's a 4X reduction right there, so.
- Yep.
Sam says, "Lias, you're in for a treat.
CodeGolf Stack Exchange is fascinating.
(laughing)
- I can only imagine.
- Indeed.
All right, well, your topic is up next.
This is the one I was alluding to earlier,
talking about Django and support for old things and so on.
- Yes, yes, indeed.
And thank you so much for the tip as well.
So then this is, it's time to stop using Python 3.6.
So in one week and one day,
Python is dropping support for Python 3.6.
So there's not gonna be any more releases after that.
So basically, well, you should update Python.
If you are using Ubuntu,
then you can say, well,
I don't really have to update right now
because Ubuntu has long-time support,
but it doesn't necessarily work like that
because the Python dev team is not gonna support
your Python 3.6 anymore, which basically means that--
- Yeah, that's what we were just talking about
with Django, right?
Just because you might be on an LTS version of Ubuntu
that will still let you use 3.6,
well, you're gonna have to give up all the new libraries
like so long to Django 4.0 and probably FastAPI
and all the things, right?
- Yes, exactly.
So you have your dependencies that are gonna need
to be updated anyhow.
So you should update.
But then I have a question.
So Noopy here, I looked around
when we were preparing the notes for the show,
I looked around and I tried to,
'cause I'm using 3.7, so I'm still okay.
But I was looking,
I wanted to try the 3.10 new stuff
because I listened to a few podcasts ago
and you were talking about the wonders of Python 3.10.
And I was like, okay, so let's update.
But then I couldn't find the best way to update from 3.7
or let's say 3.6 to 3.10.
I saw some people saying that it would be better
to just update gradually.
So go from 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, and then 3.10,
'cause you could fix the dependencies easier like that.
But then some other people just say,
just go straight to the version you want
and then just deal with the problem when you get there.
- Just rip the bandaid off.
Yeah, I don't know.
- I'm with Brian too.
Go as far ahead as you can and then see if it works.
- All right.
So just go 310 straight away.
Okay, cool. - That's what I would say.
But the question is still open.
How do you do that?
Right?
It depends, I think, on what OS you're on.
For example, on Ubuntu, 3.9 is really about as far as you're going to get without some
jumping around.
That's the latest Python 3 that it'll give you.
On Mac, you only have two, so you got to install something, but you could download the installer
from python.org.
You could homebrew it, or you could do other things.
You could do pyenv like Brandon Brenner out in the audience has suggested.
I got started with pyenv.
It makes this kind of thing trivial, true, except for I can't get it to work on my Mac.
Maybe it's an M1 thing or an Apple Silicon thing, but it just won't install anything.
So it's not trivial for me, but when it works, you can just say, "Pyenv, give me 3.6."
You can be very specific, like, "Give me Python 3.11 RC2.
I want that one."
And it'll put them all side by side.
So what do you think, Brian?
I think I'm on Pioneer V now,
but it's because I test a lot of things.
For normal people that have an application and they just want to upgrade.
I say, unless you're on Ubuntu or Linux,
I say just go to python.org and download the latest one and install it.
It works on Windows and Mac usually.
On Windows, there's the Windows installer.
you can go to the Windows store, that works.
But the Python.org one works good too.
Usually.
>> Yeah.
>> All right.
>> Yeah, indeed.
>> Of course, I'll try and I'll let you know how it goes on Twitter.
>> That's hard for what you've made a friend for.
>> Yes. Because I threw the question on Twitter as well,
and then I got a bunch of people saying,
"No, don't go through 10,
yes, it's not great for production, go through nine."
Then other people just saying, "No,
just rip the band-aid as you think."
- The Aken doctrine.
- I mean, I only support little tiny projects though.
So in Python, I support big things in C++,
but I would run your tests, you know,
upgrade, run the tests, make sure everything works.
- Yeah, oh, well, as your conversation's got
a whole bunch of stuff going off in the audience here.
Alvaro says NumPy is dropping support for 3.7
sometime this month, so that should push
the data science community to update.
And then also on Ubuntu, you can install the dead snakes PPA
and you'll get now versions of the latest version of Python.
Okay, that's interesting.
- Yes, I saw the dead snakes PPA, yes, indeed.
And I saw that in Ubuntu that's really easy to do it,
but still you can find tutorials saying go gradually
and then in other tutorials, you say just go straight in.
- Yeah, Sam says just compile from source every time.
That's what I do.
That's what I'm doing in production,
but I'm doing homebrew on my Mac.
All right, maybe that's enough.
How do I get the latest version of Python?
(laughing)
You were gonna make a comment about Java, is that right?
- Oh, yes, yes, that's true.
So, 'cause I saw, I was doing a little bit of research
for this, and then there was a little bit of a discussion
of the third-party libraries and the frameworks
that will drop support for 3.6 soon enough
as Alvaro just mentioned.
So then I saw on Twitter,
someone mentioning, let me put it here,
that using the Java, the new log4j problem,
let's put it like that.
- Log4j, this is so bad.
- Yes.
- Yeah, so using it as an example for how,
like you should upgrade your version,
the version of the programming language you're using.
And then they talk about, yeah,
so they say that you should upgrade as soon as you can.
- Yeah, what an interesting example they gave
because this log for shell thing
that I'm gonna actually talk about a little bit later.
But the problem is you have to upgrade log for J
to a patched version.
The patched version only works on Java 8.
If you've been dragging your feet, in a sense, and staying on an old version of Java, now
all of a sudden it's not just replace a library, it's completely upgrade the Java you're running
on.
If you were dragging your feet that hard, there's probably some kind of reason that
it's a pain and not well-maintained or something.
Instead of just going, "Oh, we got to quick fix this problem because it's a super big
deal," now all of a sudden you've got to do a major upgrade when you weren't planning
on it.
- Yeah.
- And then you have to have this meme,
of this wonderful meme.
- Your next task, this is from the squid game,
your next task is to figure out which applications
in your organization is using log4j.
- Dun dun dun.
- You have 10 minutes.
(laughing)
- Go.
- Oh, that's good.
I didn't catch any meme.
Yes, so then I think my code did, you know?
It is, it is awesome.
Well, yeah, thanks for highlighting that article.
That's a good one by Itamar Traor-Turning,
Turning, Traor, Traor-Turning, yes.
Okay, so what do I got next here?
Horus, Django, but something fun.
We just had what was probably the most contentious
Formula One season in 10 years at least.
One of the most wild ones for sure.
The championship was decided on the final lap of the final race.
Literally the two people who were contending for it, Hamilton and Verstappen, they were
literally tied on points going into the final one.
The final move was done on the final lap.
I wanted to highlight this article here called, "How to Visualize the Formula 1 Championship
in Python Using the AirGaST API in Seaborn."
For people who are in data science, I know if you're learning it, one of the challenges
I have of learning those tools is I don't have a great professional need for them.
I don't use that kind of stuff to analyze data that I work with that frequently.
My chance to learn Seaborn, for example, is pretty limited.
Finding some example or some fun project you can do, that turns out to be super important.
I thought I'd pull this up as something people could do to learn to play with this kind of
data.
If you're not yet into this stuff, check out the Drive to Survive, season three.
I think I got the wrong link here.
I put the trailer to it in the show notes.
Netflix did a great series that is really good for people to get into it.
Also, there's an eight-minute highlight of the last race, which was absolutely crazy.
What I want to talk about is some cool stuff that Jasper, just goes by Jasper, no last
name, over on Medium.
This is this thing called the AirGAST API, which if you go over there, it's looking a
little old school, but not very restful, for example.
For example, you can come over and we could get details about the third race of the 2008
season by just going API F1 2008-3.
It's going to come back with a series of tables, which is not necessarily that useful.
I thought the way you get the JSON, you might do an accept application/JSON type and not
HTML or something, but no, you say 3.json.
That gives you the API there.
That's pretty cool.
You come through here and basically they talk about how to use Pandas, NumPys, Seaborn,
that API to just build some cool graphs that actually show you the position of all the
drivers across the entire season.
If you want to build this picture, you see right at the top of the article, play around
with that data from that API, then this is the way to do it.
One other thing that's pretty interesting from this article that I had no idea about
is over on PyPI. We have fast F1 as a package, which is a wrapper library for F1 data and
telemetry APIs with additional data processing capabilities. That's pretty cool.
>> Yeah. >> Yeah. So you go down here and like, they'll
show you how to build this really cool graph of like lap by lap, the times, the various
drivers you can see in the beginning like there's all sorts of chaos because
there's people jockeying for position the cars are heavy they're full of fuel
so they go slower you sort of see as as things spread out as the cars lighten up
and stuff because they burn up 100 kilograms of fuel then they all kind of
get faster and better times so you can get like cool graphs and exploration of
all this stuff here and the way you do it is really interesting as you just go
over to this fast f1 and you enable the cache because it downloads some stuff
You don't want to have to download it twice.
You can say, give me this season, this Grand Prix,
give me the race details, load up the laps,
and then you can start just working with the data
in this really interesting way.
So if I was into data science
and I wanted to learn some stuff,
this might be a really cool real world data set
that you can play with.
What do y'all think?
- I like it.
I think I might actually try to know more about Formula One
just so that I can talk with Anthony more.
- Exactly.
Anthony Shaw's a big fan.
Yeah.
Indeed. As am I these days. It's a lot of fun. It was really a cool season this year.
And yeah, check out the highlights from the last race. It was absolutely off the hook.
What do you think of the terms of a data science project here?
A data science project? Wonderful. Like, especially if you actually like this. I have
no knowledge on F1. I actually worked for a company that was like the, I think the founders
of the company were in love with F1 and that's how they got together to found the company.
And I got to talk to them and like a one specific circumstance. It was like, oh, you like F1?
That's awesome. I know nothing about it. So, please enlighten me.
>> If you're interested, check out the Netflix Drive to Survive series. That's the easy way
in. Lots of drama. Not like the boring sort of 30 minutes in between the things that actually
happen version. What some of the people from the US don't understand is that they can turn
in two directions. That's odd. However, Brian, just before we're off this, the US Grand Prix
for the first time, I think was the most attended race ever, certainly for F1, but maybe 400,000
attendees in Austin, Texas this year. So apparently it's becoming a thing like soccer became a thing
thing in the US when it didn't used to be.
And now it is.
I think this is as well.
All right.
Alvaro also says, interesting, about interesting libraries.
Last week I found DuckDB super interesting
for data science as well.
Yeah, definitely.
We've only touched on that a little bit,
but yeah, it's a great one.
- Yeah.
- DuckDB is like a new database,
like, I don't know, CockroachDB?
- A different, but I believe it has integration
with like pandas and stuff.
if I recall correctly, I'll have to look it up, but yeah.
I'll do some real time followup, but Brian, tell us about NBDIME.
NBDIME. So, a,
another listener suggestion, Henrik Frinsberg, cool last name.
he's, he said, we recently covered Jute,
or Jut, Jupyter notebook. yeah, Jupyter notebook,
Terminal Viewer, we covered that in episode 258.
He's correct, but he said,
"Hey, you should check out MB Dime,
so because it's been around for a long time
and it does something similar."
So I definitely did.
And I think this is a really cool, a cool set of tools.
So we've got, not only does it do an MB show,
which does a-
- Right, that's the JOOT equivalent
is the MB show, which is cool.
- Yeah, but it's, this is a set of tools
that is around the needs for diffing and merging notebooks.
So like if you're keeping notebooks in a Git repo,
you'll have to do things like this.
And so one of the, it's got a bunch of tools.
It's got diff, it's got merge, it's got diff web.
So you can have a rich rendered diff of the notebook
and in the merge web.
So web three-way web-based merge of notebook tools.
This just looks really cool.
and I definitely think it's worth checking out.
If you work with notebooks and work with teams,
you need to do things like this.
- Oh yeah, this looks great.
Yeah, diffing and merging notebooks is tricky for sure,
because the actual on-disk representation
is basically a JSON document,
and then it embeds the output in there as well, right?
So if you ran it against live data
and you got some output and you run it again,
of course that's gonna be different,
but that's a straight get, that's a merge conflict, right?
- Yeah, I'd be interested to know how they deal with that.
I haven't looked through this, but you'd probably--
- Yeah, it looks like it understands the cells
and then just the cells or something along those lines.
- Yeah, probably.
So here-- - Yeah, that is super cool.
- Yeah, this is a great one.
Thanks for the recommendation as well.
All right, Lais, you're up next.
- Yes, so we found out,
- Oh, so first of all, this is a recommendation
from Fridolin.
He works, he's a software developer at Red Hat,
so thank you very much for the suggestion.
And this is Project Doth.
So basically, this is an open source,
cloud-based Python dependency resolver.
So we all know that PyPy just launched
a new dependencies resolver.
- Yeah, that was a big deal.
There were some breaking changes to pip and stuff like that.
- Yes.
And well, show the first stone
who never had dependency resolving issues with PIP.
Please, I've spent so much time like,
okay, so it's not this library, it's this other one.
No, it's not this version, it's this other one.
So this project dot basically comes to solve this issue
and it uses reinforcement learning
to solve these dependency issues.
So basically from what I understood, it's a smarter PIP.
So basically it uses a few inputs from the developer
such as like the speed of the execution of the code
and if there was any errors
and your hard drive version, et cetera.
- It's not just what version do you want
like greater than 2.1, but you could say,
I would like one that's relatively stable
or I would prefer security over recency
or something along those lines.
There's a lot of different inputs
to this machine learning model
that then will give you the result
of like pip install a thing.
- Yes, and then it pre-computes
this whole dependency information
and puts in a database
and then it just keeps track of it.
And then the logs that result from
like actually installing the dependencies
of that environment,
then I use to go into as input
into the reinforcement learning algorithm.
And they use that then to create future resolutions.
So basically just make the whole process
of dependency resolving much faster and much easier.
It sounds like a great thing and I tried testing,
but well, I got it to a little bit of an issue
with my Python versions.
I was like, "Oh, I'll deal with all of this later."
- Yeah, exactly.
Can you scroll down to the code sample
where it's talking about TAMOS or Thamos?
I don't remember the term exactly.
It's a little further down.
It's like a code call out.
Keep going, keep going.
- Yes, here. - Right there.
So yeah, so the way you can use it
is you pip install this Thamos thing
and then you configure environment
and then you add dependencies with some suggested version,
like approximately Flask one.
And then you ask it to advise you on your current setup.
It'll go through and it actually analyzes the code
and does a whole bunch of stuff,
and then it'll give you some information.
I don't remember exactly all the details
of what it would suggest,
but it'll give you information about
the various dependencies that you have installed and on.
So, pretty cool.
- And also give you suggestions on hardware
and OS versions that you should be using.
And it's quite smart.
I thought it was quite interesting.
And it's in beta phase.
So if anyone that is listening would like to try it
and then maybe just give some feedback back to Red Hat,
they'll be very, very, very happy to hear
from the community as well.
'Cause it's an open source project.
So please, collaborate.
- Check it out.
Looks like it might have something to do with OpenStack
and their whole cloud story over there as well.
although I don't believe it explicitly said it.
It doesn't seem to be tied to it,
but it seems maybe motivated by that as well.
So, yeah, cool. That's a good one.
Brian, some real-time feedback here.
So, we covered this article,
Efficient SQL on Pandas with DuckDB,
and one of the cool things you could do
is create a Pandas data frame
and then do select queries on top of the data frame.
- That's pretty cool.
- Yeah, so for example, remember you have like a local
variable and you say the name of the local variable
and the query and it like reaches into the call stack
and grabs that out of the context and then works with it.
So yeah, anyway, this is one of the data science-y things.
- Nice.
- Yep.
- Fun.
- Right, is that it for all of our items?
- I think it is, yeah.
- I think you might be right.
>> Well, what about the extras? You got any?
>> I do. Actually, nice timing for today.
So Pragmatic Bookshelf,
they're the publishers of the Playtests book.
They're running a sale,
actually 12 days of Christmas sale.
So every day it's something different.
You don't know what it is,
I don't know what it is,
but today, my book is part of it.
So you have to enter a promo code and you get
50% off $50 spend.
So you gotta order a couple books
'cause they're not that expensive.
But anyway, that's pretty cool.
- Cool, yeah.
Hopefully that does well.
Liza, how about you?
Got anything extra you wanna give a quick shout out
to while we're here?
- Oh yes, of course.
So I am a volunteer for Python Island
and Python Island has a speaker's coaching session
happening on the 22nd of January.
So it's basically we're offering for people
that would like to be a pro on giving talks,
we're offering a workshop, it's the entire day.
And you need to say that you need to just like give us
your words that you're gonna give us a talk
as like a practice thing.
But it's quite, it's a very interesting workshop thing.
And if you would like to be part of it,
just go into the meetup.com/pythonireland and it's there.
So again, it's the 22nd of January.
- Yeah, that's a cool service, I guess you would call it,
a cool option for speakers,
because speaking is one of those things
that really can open doors and help get you connected,
but it's also super stressful
the very first time you do it is in front of the audience
and it's being broadcast.
- And also like the tips on how to put a talk together,
'cause there is that anxiety as well.
I have a talk, but I don't know if the thing
that I want to talk about is a good thing,
or I don't know if my slides are good.
I don't know if I know how to actually convey the message.
So we would love to help you with that.
And I won't be the one giving the workshop.
There is a proper person that has experience on doing that.
So yeah, I've done the workshop though,
and it's a great workshop.
- Yeah, nice.
And then I have a few other extras though.
Can I just go on?
- Yeah, yeah.
Cover as many as you want.
As many as you can.
- Cool.
So then I also found,
I don't know how many newbies we have listening to us today,
but for people that,
since we're talking a lot about data science as well,
there's a bunch of data scientists
and other people around
that don't really know how to deal with Git.
And even for me as a person,
My personal experience with Git initially was so hard.
- Why do I have to do it twice?
Why do I have to do that?
I just want to commit it.
What's this push about?
- And then what do you mean, where am I?
I am here in front of my computer.
Yeah, so if you want to learn Git,
there is this website called learningbranching.js.org
that gives you a step-by-step with a visual manual
of how to actually get Git done.
So you have like the lessons,
so you can click on the lessons
and then it gives you like an explanation
with some best practices
and that gives you snippets of code as well.
So you have like a thing that kind of like moves.
Yeah, it's quite like straightforward
and it's quite interesting.
I don't know what happened here.
My computer, I think, stopped working.
Yeah, anyhow, so it's very interesting
and it's a very visual way of learning Git.
So if you're struggling with Git
and you don't have time to read the book,
actually, first thing, read the book.
I think chapter 10 of the Git book is the most important one.
It teaches the main things that you need to know.
But if you don't have time to do that,
And then if you want to train a little bit with a GUI,
just this is the most straightforward thing
that I found around.
- Yeah, that's cool.
I like how it's like a little fake shell.
- Yes, and if everything was working,
I could show you the like you have.
So you do, you click here and it's like,
it's very GUI based,
but then as soon as you get out of this thing,
you need to train to pass the phase,
'cause it's kind of like a game,
but you need to type it.
- So it has you do some kind of branch thing or check out
and then it watches to make sure that say the branch
was created or something, huh?
- Yes, yes, like you have a check.
It's quite interesting and it's quite good for learning.
Yeah, here.
- Oh, yeah, nice.
- Let's see if we can fake, no we can't.
I don't know what's going on, I'm sorry.
But it's--
- No worries, it looks cool, it's a good suggestion.
People can check that out in the show notes.
- The, yeah, so here.
This is the one, so you can type, let's say, git commit,
and it's here, you can see what happens,
and it tells you, so, okay, so you did a commit,
and this is what happens, and then you can go back
to the instructions if you don't get it.
It's quite interesting.
And then, just to close the extras,
So I started coding with Python for a very short period of time.
And then I switched when I started IT, I switched to Java, and then I did a few years of Java.
And then I went back into Python.
But then when I went back into Python, I was like, well, I know Java now.
And what's going on?
What is this language that is not verbose at all?
And you can do whatever you want with it.
How do you do objective learning?
Exactly.
What's the story?
And I struggled a lot to find a straightforward tutorial
and a straightforward manual that would tell me,
so this is the comparison, this is what Python does,
the Java doesn't do, or this is how to do things in Python,
and this is how to do things in Java,
this is the comparison, and blah, blah, blah.
So then I found this real Python article
that was just being published, I think,
maybe a few weeks ago.
I wish it was around when I started, but it wasn't.
- Yeah, it's only like five days old
or seven days old or something, so.
- Yes, yes.
So it tells you like very straight,
in a very straightforward way,
the differences, the similarities between the two languages
and talks about the Python data types
and talks a little bit about as well,
the Zen-O Python and how we do things in Python
and how we do things in Java and then standard library
and then comments as well as about apps
and tutorials and documentation.
So it's very, very, very interesting
if you're starting with Python
coming from a Java background.
- Nice, that's cool.
I think using your existing skills to level up
is a much better way.
Like I wanna know how to talk to a database.
I can do that in Java.
How do I do that in Python?
Oh, I see.
Okay, now I got it, right?
- Yes. - Cool, cool.
All right, I got a few extras as everyone may imagine.
First, a quick follow-up.
For people who are getting started with Git
and you want some more help,
consider using OhMyZshell.
Why?
Because if you go into a Git repository here
and you type Git, you can hit tab.
It'll give you all the top-level features of Git.
So like branch, clone, checkout, commit, whatever.
So if you type Git branch and hit tab, though,
It will actually give you tab autocomplete and arrow autocomplete for all the existing
branches, for example.
If you're having a hard time on the terminal and you want some help, you can just do ZShell
and it will give you super deep autocomplete on the terminal, even into, say, your project
structure, your repo structure.
That's cool.
Don't go there without that.
For my actual things, I gave a talk at FlaskCon, so that talk is up, which is really cool.
It was on HTMX and Flask and JINJA partials and things like that.
So people can check that out.
That's good.
Brian and I have talked about why Firefox is awesome and people should be using it more
and not letting it fade into oblivion, as everyone thinks Chromium is the core that
we should all be building on.
They just came out with a really cool idea called RLBlocks that would be applicable to
other browsers as well.
One of the problems with web browsers is they accept all sorts of input from random strangers
on the internet, which is generally not a good idea for security, right?
It's not just the browser, it's the plugins.
You got things like the og format or wolf is a font, parsing library and all these different
things that you might need to run inside the browser, but you really get them from somewhere
else.
For example, if there's a problem with say the og parser, you load an og file, then the
browser gets hacked into.
There's things they've been doing to try to restrict that with sandboxes and stuff.
This thing, I'll just give a quick shout out to Rblox.
What they're doing is insane.
As somebody who does a little C++, tell me what you think about this.
What they do is they use the llvm, or no, clang here.
They use clang, and they take these libraries like aug, they compile them to WebAssembly,
and then there's another thing called WebAssembly to C, and they compile it back to C, and then
they compile it into the system as if they hadn't done anything to it.
Which sounds weird, right?
Why would you do that?
But what it does is it strips out a bunch of intermediate steps where viruses could
live and uses WebAssembly to put those checks as part of the system and then puts it back
into C.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah.
So, anyway, this is a pretty wild thing that they came up with.
So just worth a quick checking out.
And then, Liza, you mentioned this log4j thing.
- Yes.
- We're all gonna be suffering from this for so long.
This is so bad.
So it turned out that log4j, the problem with log4j
is, let me describe this in Python terms
and just see what you all think.
So log4j has this ability
to parse the strings you put into the log.
So I want to log out a message.
But instead of actually getting a user--
like, say, instead of going to the code
and getting, say, the machine name or the IP address
that I'm on, I can put a little symbol in the log file.
And log4j will go, oh, what you need
is you want me to, say, pull in the IP address locally
and then write that in the log.
That's maybe OK.
They also have this ability to run code that they don't know.
You did some Java.
They have this ability to run code not in the local class library, but on a remote machine
somewhere else out on the internet called JNDI.
It turns out you can put the JDNI run code symbol into your log file, and then the log
message will result in running code from anywhere on the internet in the process of your thing
that's trying to log. And it can come from anywhere. It is so bad. If it's in a header
file, if it's in the URL, if it's in the email address where you expect an email address,
you put in like dollar bracket J NDI colon some path to the virus. Literally the attempt
to say this user with this email address failed to log in results in running the virus. It's
Anything that you may ever log, user agents, you name it.
Run virus remotely in this process.
On anything you might want to log in,
you're typically logging bad inputs.
You can log attempts to hack your system.
There were like 850,000 hack attempts
within the first couple, like day or two of this.
It's going to be not good, which made me think of just
a quick little fun comment here of an ex-KCD
that someone put on Twitter after this
because it's all about this Log4j
that's not really funded.
So all modern digital infrastructure
is like this Jenga tower.
And then at the very bottom,
it's a project some random person in Nebraska
has been thanklessly maintaining since 2003.
Pull that out, it all comes down.
So that's the world we live in.
Yeah?
- Yeah.
Especially because there was this thing,
this movement on Twitter of people
just blaming the luck for the developers about it.
And some other people to show up as well,
they haven't been getting paid for all the work
that they're doing and everyone is using
the application throughout, so.
- There's certainly a conversation to be had about
how much energy and time should be these large companies
be putting into supporting open source stuff, right?
And it's, I think there's so many little things
like Log4j that nobody feels like they're using.
Sure, their web framework might use it,
but they don't actually want to use it.
It just happens to be what their web framework shows,
but they are built on top of it as they're learning.
I'm sure there are many sleepless nights on this.
I don't know.
Not good.
- But there's also--
- As a Java person, what do you think about this?
(laughing)
- As a representative of all Java.
- Yeah. (laughs)
- No pressure at all, right?
No pressure whatsoever. - I'm good.
(laughs)
- I can say as someone that has worked for open source
for a while now, that there is a big discussion
to be had on that, but there is also a big discussion
to be had on how do we want open source to be sustained
from now on, because the way that it's going
is not sustainable, and we all know it,
and we have big companies,
and we don't even need to name the big companies,
but we have really big companies.
They have been using, and are starting now,
to do open source projects
simply because it's good for business.
Because it gets people hooked into what they're doing,
and then, well, you're gonna have to use
our open source packet now,
and that's us taking the market.
But we need open source
be at least a tiny bit more sustainable
'cause the way it's going, it's not good for anyone.
- Yeah, I guess one final thought on this.
This was not a bug that was found.
This was a feature that was used
in a way that people didn't expect.
I can expand variables, I can run remote code,
I can run expanded remote code, oops.
All right, but let's bring it back to Python with a joke.
What do you guys think?
- Yeah.
- Lize, you got the first joke.
- Hit us with that. - Yes.
So we were talking about virtual environments
and how much fun it is to set up Python
and use all your virtual environments
'cause you have, well, FAMs and PPAMs
and Condas and everything else.
And how much everyone always complains
about having to set up their environment
before installing Python.
So I found this.
So apparently this would be society
if you didn't have to use virtual engines
to install Python packages.
And it would be wonderful.
- Let me try to describe this for the world.
Ooh, it's just listening.
It's like the most idealistic, futuristic view of the world.
We've got like monorails
and there's just shining silver spaceships
zooming through the sky.
And it just looks like, oh yeah, here's the perfect future
we all dreamed we were supposed to have.
- Yes, that everyone types Python,
Everyone knows Python, but you don't have to use virtual AMPs
to install their packages, imagine.
- Are you telling me that virtual environments
denied this from us?
- No, this is the reason why we can't have these things
is because people don't learn virtual environments.
That spaceship has its own environment.
The little house over there,
that's running a different version.
Yeah, because of its environment.
- That's a good way to look at it, Brian, I like it.
- Yeah, me too.
Brian always brings the other side of the things first.
like, oh, the data perspective.
It's wonderful.
Thank you, Brian.
- Yeah, thanks, Ryan.
All right, the joke I was gonna cover
is actually that Jenga tower I already showed,
so I'll just leave it at that.
One real quick bit of follow-up here,
'cause I think this will be helpful to people.
Jeremy Page says, "If you are on Bash instead of ZShell,
"the package bash-completion will also allow
"get command tags, branches, et cetera, to auto-complete."
So, very cool.
- And I never read a book.
I just like, I think I read an article
that's like the 10 Git commands you need.
And I've been good since, so.
- Yeah.
- Oh yeah, okay.
Mr. Waze Kedge.
I catch.
- Exactly, in a sense, you don't need virtual environments
if you just set up a new virtual machine for every project.
- That's true.
- Yeah, Docker will save the world.
- That's right.
- I agree.
- We could have the same picture with Docker,
but they'd all just be cubes just blowing around.
- Cubes, yeah.
(all laughing)
With those shipping containers everywhere.
- There's also the pragmatic-- - With wings.
- Exactly, the pragmatic Mario says,
"I click buttons on VS Code."
- Go GUI.
- All right, Brian, you wanna take us out of here?
- Yeah, sure.
Thanks everybody for showing up for the show
and it was really a lot of fun.
Thanks, Lea, sorry, Lace, for showing up.
It's been great.
Yeah.
Bye, everyone.
Thank you.